Python History
Python was conceived by Guido Van Rossum. What started as a hobby project, soon became a general purpose programming language: nowadays, you can use Python to build practically any piece of software. But how did this happen? Well, first of all, Python is open source. It's free to use. Second, it's very easy to build packages in Python, which is code that you can share with other people to solve specific problems. Throughout time, more and more of these packages specifically built for data science have been developed. Suppose you want to make some fancy visualizations of your company's sales. There's a package for that. Or what about connecting to a database to analyze sensor measurements? There's also a package for that. People often refer to Python as the swiss army knife of programming languages as you can do almost anything with it. In this course, we'll start to build up your data science coding skills bit by bit, so make sure to stick around to see how powerful the language can be. Currently, there are two common versions of Python, version 2-point-7 and 3-point-5 and later. Apart from some syntactical differences, they are pretty similar, but as support for version 2 will fade over time, our courses focus on Python 3. 

Python Capabilities
Python can be used on a server to create web applications.
Python can be used alongside software to create workflows.
Python can connect to database systems. It can also read and modify files.
Python can be used to handle big data and perform complex mathematics.
Python can be used for rapid prototyping, or for production-ready software development.

Python Syntax Comparison
Python was designed for readability, and has some similarities to the English language with influence from mathematics.
Python uses new lines to complete a command, as opposed to other programming languages which often use semicolons or parentheses.
Python relies on indentation, using whitespace, to define scope; such as the scope of loops, functions and classes. Other programming languages often use curly-brackets for this purpose.